.. currentmodule:: phasorpy

PhasorPy 0.6 (2025-06-22)
=========================

This is the sixth alpha release of the PhasorPy library.
It contains several bug fixes, improvements, and breaking changes.

The new ``phasor_component_fit`` function fits fractions of multiple
components to phasor coordinates.
The ``phasor_nearest_neighbor`` function returns nearest neighbors in phasor
coordinates.
The ``phasor_to_normal_lifetime`` function returns single lifetimes closest
to phasor coordinates.
The ``phasor_semicircle_intersect`` function returns intersections of lines
with the universal semicircle.

The ``LifetimePlots`` class interactively plots lifetimes in the time domain,
frequency domain, and phasor plot. It can be invoked from the command line
with ``python -m phasorpy lifetime``.

The ``two_fractions_from_phasor`` and ``graphical_component_analysis``
functions are renamed to ``phasor_component_fraction`` and
``phasor_component_graphical``, respectively.
The ``versions`` function has moved to the ``phasorpy.utils`` namespace.
The ``spectral_vector_denoise``, ``anscombe_transform``, and
``anscombe_transform_inverse`` functions have moved to the
``phasorpy.experimental`` namespace.

Functions in the ``io`` module now return only the first channel by default.

Three new tutorials are added: "Geometrical interpretation of lifetimes",
"Multi-component fit", and "FRET efficiency image".

This release supports Python 3.11 to 3.13.

What's Changed
--------------

* Bump version by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/221
* Bump pypa/cibuildwheel from 2.23.2 to 2.23.3 in the github-actions group by @dependabot in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/223
* Update description of AlliGator software by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/225
* Cython 3.1.0 is released by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/226
* Add phasor_to_normal_lifetime function by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/228
* Read first channel from files by default by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/229
* Update acknowledgments by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/230
* Use importlib to get package versions by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/231
* Use Windows Server 2022 in GitHub Actions by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/232
* Add tutorial about geometrical interpretation of lifetimes by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/233
* Update reference phasor_from_signal benchmark results by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/234
* Sort clusters returned by phasor_cluster_gmm by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/236
* Reorganize io module by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/235
* Update pre-commit configuration by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/237
* Fix test failing with numpy 2.3.0 by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/239
* Add phasor_component_fit function by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/238
* Rename functions in components module by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/240
* Add phasor_semicircle_intersect function by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/241
* Add private helper functions to mask universal semicircle by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/242
* Add private _distance_from_semicircle function by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/244
* Reorganize plot module by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/245
* Add interactive LifetimePlots class by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/247
* Reorganize version, utils, and experimental modules by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/248
* Add phasor_nearest_neighbor function by @bruno-pannunzio in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/243
* Release v0.6 by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/249

**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/compare/v0.5...v0.6
