.. currentmodule:: phasorpy

PhasorPy 0.7 (2025-08-22)
=========================

This is the seventh alpha release of the PhasorPy library.
It contains several bug fixes, improvements, and breaking changes.

Lifetime-related functions have moved from the ``phasor`` module to
the new ``lifetime`` module.
The ``cursors`` and ``components`` modules have been renamed
to ``cursor`` and ``component`` respectively.

The new ``phasor_from_component`` function calculates phasor coordinates
from component fractions.
The ``phasor_component_mvc`` function calculates mean value coordinates
from phasor components.
The ``phasor_to_lifetime_search`` function finds two lifetime components
in multi-harmonic phasor coordinates.
The ``signal_from_pqbin`` function reads TCSPC histograms from PicoQuant
BIN files.

New tutorials demonstrate the multidimensional phasor approach and the
programmatic generation of the PhasorPy logo.

This release supports Python 3.11 to 3.13. Wheels for Python 3.14, including
free-threaded, are available for testing.

What's Changed
--------------

* Bump version by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/250
* Bump pypa/cibuildwheel from 2.23.3 to 3.0.0 in the github-actions group by @dependabot[bot] in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/252
* Support reading variants of SimFCS referenced files by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/253
* Add GSLab dataset by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/254
* Fix tests failing with numpy 2.3 by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/255
* Remove numpy pin for static code analysis by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/256
* Add phasor_from_component function by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/257
* Return component fractions as single array by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/258
* Use only latest GitHub Actions runners by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/259
* Add phasor_component_mvc function by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/260
* Move lifetime related functions out of phasor module by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/261
* Add option to specify number of lifetimes in lifetime app by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/263
* Rename cursors and components modules by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/262
* Skip more tests if SKIP_FETCH environment variable is set by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/264
* Improve docstrings and tests by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/265
* Drop support for numpy 1.25 by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/267
* Update Python versions used in workflows by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/268
* Add phasor_to_lifetime_search function for two components by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/266
* Fix io tutorial by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/269
* Fix multi-component fit tutorial by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/270
* Build wheels for Python 3.14 by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/271
* Improve PhasorPlot.polar_grid method by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/272
* Fix PhasorPlot.polar_cursor at origin by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/273
* Pass kwargs from signal_from_ptu to PtuFile.decode_image by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/274
* Add signal_from_pqbin function by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/275
* Build wheels for free-threaded Python by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/276
* Fix signal_from_ptu function kwargs handling by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/277
* Bump pypa/cibuildwheel from 3.1.2 to 3.1.3 in the github-actions group by @dependabot[bot] in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/278
* Rename build_manylinux scripts by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/279
* Add tutorial to create PhasorPy logo by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/280
* Make PhasorPy logo square shaped by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/281
* Update pre-commit-hooks by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/282
* Improve PhasorPlot class and its cursor methods by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/284
* Document that LIF files contain Fast FLIM lifetimes by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/286
* Add multidimensional phasor tutorial and dataset by @bruno-pannunzio in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/283
* Release v0.7 by @cgohlke in https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/pull/285

**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/phasorpy/phasorpy/compare/v0.6...v0.7
